Well, class 151,
you seem excited, and you should be.
This is a very special day for you
—one you’ll never forget.
Just as with the entire course of Gilead,
you’ll never forget.
And we’re happy to be with you today.
And we will all benefit
from the things that are said today
at this spiritual program.
But even so, we know that although
this will benefit everyone involved,
the program has been designed
with you in mind.
So with every talk given,
the brothers have prayerfully considered
what can be said to encourage.
And as you listen, just be certain
that the brothers have had that in mind.
But all of us listening today will benefit
from the good things
that will come out in this program.
When the day is over,
you’ll look back and recall a program
that honored Jehovah
and confirmed his love for you.
And again, you’re never going to forget it.
During the past five months
of your schooling, you were asked to draw out
principles from many different
Bible accounts.
And you worked hard to do that, didn’t you?
You learned new ways to do that,
to see the Scriptures
as something that Jehovah wants us
to listen to very carefully
and then apply its fine points in our lives.
So those accounts focused
on genuine servants of God
who with his help
succeeded in doing His will.
And you were doing the same.
You examined principles for Christian living,
you examined principles for teaching others,
you looked at principles
about how to organize the work, and so forth.
This graduation program will do the same.
With that in mind, I have a theme
for these brief introductory comments.
I thought it would keep me focused.
So here’s my theme:
“You Are Ready to Face the Things Ahead.”
Now, notice that it’s not a question:
Are you ready?
It’s a statement: You are ready
to face the things ahead.
Now, why can we say this
with such confidence?
Because we see your faith.
We see your deep love
for our heavenly Father, Jehovah,
and his Son.
You’ve trusted in Jehovah,
you have done well,
and you’ve made it to graduation day.
I know some of you wondered
if you would make it, but you did.
Here you are.
You’re graduating
with the 151st class of Gilead.
What a delight!
You undoubtedly agree more than ever before
with what the apostle Paul wrote
at Philippians 4:13,
where he said: “For all things
I have the strength through [who?]
the one who gives me power.”
And we know who that is.
Jehovah has surely helped you
during these months
to make a success of Gilead school.
And we’re very proud of you for that.
You can be certain that Jehovah
is just delighted to see that
because you love him
and you went through this course,
you’ve gone through it
with that in mind, true?
Jehovah gave you what you needed,
and that’s a blessing you must never forget.
By remembering it, you will put
that blessing to work for you
wherever you are in your service to Jehovah
in the weeks, months, and years ahead.
Really, these things you learn
and that all of us learn now
will serve us well forever.
For example, whenever you face
a task in the future
that seems almost too large
for you to tackle or handle,
you’ll remember how Jehovah helped you
in this school.
Your experience in going through Gilead
now adds to your extensive experience,
the experience you already had
in serving Jehovah,
but this just enriches it that much more.
It will help you as you face
trials and tests ahead
in that you’ll know you can make it through
what you may view as difficult times
because Jehovah will help you to do it.
You are growing ever more and more ready
to face the things ahead.
You already are, but you’ll grow
more and more so, like all of us will,
as you reflect on and remember
what Jehovah has done for you,
such as helping you
to complete this Bible school course.
Here’s an example of things
you must be ready to handle or you may face.
Soon after your graduation,
you will be off to your assignments.
And as you go,
have in mind Jesus’ words,
where he taught his disciples to pray:
“Do not bring us into temptation,
but deliver us from the wicked one.”
Now focus on the words
“temptation” and “wicked one.”
They go together, don’t they?
Temptation and wicked one.
Satan, “the wicked one,”
doesn’t like your success here at Gilead.
You can be certain that he hates this school
and all the good that it has accomplished
through the years in honoring Jehovah
and benefiting His people
and those in the field.
So, then, what temptations
or stumbling blocks
might Satan try to place before you
now that you’ve graduated from this school?
Well, here are a few things,
and they are things
that all of us must face.
For example,
if you’re not careful, you might be tempted
to become self-satisfied
with what you have accomplished.
Don’t ever let that happen to you.
Never be self-satisfied.
Keep setting goals for yourself.
Strive to please Jehovah
more and more each day
in all that you do.
It’s the principles that we draw
from God’s Word
that help us to do that.
Yet, here’s a caution:
Your healthy desire to keep setting goals
must not be allowed
to lead you into the next temptation.
And that is this:
the temptation to give in to pride.
That can happen.
It can happen to a person
when he or she forgets
who has truly helped them to succeed
—and that is Jehovah.
Those who forget about Jehovah may become
ambitious and try to outshine others.
We must never allow that to happen
to our heart and mind.
We must never become like that.
In fact, we must fight against pride.
And one key way to do this
is to remember that in all that you do
—in all that we do—
it is always about Jehovah.
When we have that focus,
we will succeed in doing things his way,
the right way,
no matter what we face in the future.
So we reflect on his blessings.
We see how he’s strengthened us.
We’re confident he will continue to do so,
and he will do that for you.
But we never forget that he’s in charge.
It’s always about Jehovah.
And so we do everything out of love for him.
And that, of course,
leads into love for others,
because he loves others.
If a person fails to remember
how Jehovah has blessed him or her,
that person might become big
in their own eyes, like King Saul did.
You’ll recall his example.
Where did that eventually lead Saul?
It led him away from Jehovah’s favor
and blessing.
People like Saul fail to maintain faith.
They fail to remain humble.
What about your faith and your humility?
Well, we see those good qualities in you,
and that’s why we confidently state
that you’re ready to face the things ahead.
Along with Jehovah’s blessing,
your faith will help you to conquer
any temptation that the wicked one,
“the Tempter,” may place before you,
and your humility will help you
to remain unbreakable.
You will be able to defeat the Tempter.
Along with resisting temptation,
your Gilead training will also help you
to continue supporting our vital work
for Jehovah’s Kingdom,
his people, and for those
who will yet listen.
In fact, for all of God’s people,
this is the greater purpose
behind any training
that we receive from him, right?
So, then, wherever you serve,
never forget the purpose behind the blessings
that you have experienced in this school.
Trust in Jehovah and in his Son
to help you at all times.
Use your Gilead training in the branches
and territories where you are going.
Keep in mind that with God’s help,
the One who gives you power,
you are ready to face the things ahead.
Well, we will say a little bit more
about this at the conclusion of the program.
Now we’re going to enjoy a series
of encouraging talks that for all of us
will strengthen our faith,
build up our trust in God,
and highlight his wonderful purpose
that we support.